# ros_initial
This is a starter project to help everyone get used to ROS and familiar with its structure

# Getting started
To get started please follow installation instructions for ros here http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Installation. ROS only works on linux distributions, it is recommended to install the latest version on Ubuntu as ROS is developed on Ubuntu and a clean intsallation of Ubuntu will contain all the dependencies you need. Once you have followed the instructions on the ROS wiki for installation, getting the project to run is simple.

## Workspace
The first step is to get the workspace set up on your linux machine. To do this clone this repsository anywhere, for the sake of this tutorial we will clone the repository in the home folde ~/. Navigate to the home folder by opening up a terminal and typing

`git clone https://github.com/BYU-IGVC/ros_initial.git`

This will clone the whole repsotiroy which includes the workspaces our project is in. The next step to get everything setup is to compile our workspace and setup our virtual environment so that we can run our scripts. To do this navigate into the workspace by typing

`cd ~/ros_initial/igvc_ws/`

You are now in the ROS workspace, next we need to compile all the code. You can do so by running the following command in the workspace

`catkin_make`

Next we need to enter the virtual environment generated by ROS. This will make things easier when we run the scripts. To enter a virutal environment we run the following command in our workspace

`source ./devel/setup.bash`

## Running our ROS scripts
Now that we have everything set up lets test our workspace out. Run the follwing commands.

This will start the main server, everything depends on the roscore running. You can do this in a new termainal, we don't have to be in the same virtual environment as our workspace.

`roscore`

Next run the following, make sure to do it in the same terminal that you ran the source command in. Otherwise it will not work, the ros commands need to know where everything is. When we build catkin_make will generate all the paths for us, so when we enter the virutal enviroment we don't need to specify the direct path to our scripts.

`rosrun state_machine state_machine.py`
